# Citizen Code of Conduct

## 1. Purpose

A primary goal of Aether is to be inclusive to the largest number of
contributors, with the most varied and diverse backgrounds possible. As such,
we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for
all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity,
socioeconomic status, and religion (or lack thereof).

This code of conduct outlines our expectations for all those who participate in
our community, as well as the consequences for unacceptable behavior.

We invite all those who participate in Aether to help us create safe and
positive experiences for everyone.

## 2. Open [Source/Culture/Tech] Citizenship

A supplemental goal of this Code of Conduct is to increase open
[source/culture/tech] citizenship by encouraging participants to recognize and
strengthen the relationships between our actions and their effects on our
community.

Communities mirror the societies in which they exist and positive action is
essential to counteract the many forms of inequality and abuses of power that
exist in society.

If you see someone who is making an extra effort to ensure our community is
welcoming, friendly, and encourages all participants to contribute to the
fullest extent, we want to know.

## 3. Expected Behavior

The following behaviors are expected and requested of all community members:

 * Participate in an authentic and active way. In doing so, you contribute to
   the health and longevity of this community.
 * Exercise consideration and respect in your speech and actions.
 * Attempt collaboration before conflict.
 * Refrain from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech.
 * Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants. Alert
   community leaders if you notice a dangerous situation, someone in distress,
   or violations of this Code of Conduct, even if they seem inconsequential.
 * Remember that community event venues may be shared with members of the
   public; please be respectful to all patrons of these locations.

## 4. Unacceptable Behavior

The following behaviors are considered harassment and are unacceptable within
our community:

 * Violence, threats of violence or violent language directed against another
   person.
 * Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise discriminatory
   jokes and language.
 * Posting or displaying sexually explicit or violent material.
 * Posting or threatening to post other people's personally identifying
   information ("doxing").
 * Personal insults, particularly those related to gender, sexual orientation,
   race, religion, or disability.
 * Inappropriate photography or recording.
 * Inappropriate physical contact. You should have someone's consent before
   touching them.
 * Unwelcome sexual attention. This includes, sexualized comments or jokes;
   inappropriate touching, groping, and unwelcomed sexual advances.
 * Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following (online or in person).
 * Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
 * Sustained disruption of community events, including talks and presentations.

## 5. Weapons Policy

No weapons will be allowed at Aether events, community spaces, or in other
spaces covered by the scope of this Code of Conduct. Weapons include but are
not limited to guns, explosives (including fireworks), and large knives such as
those used for hunting or display, as well as any other item used for the
purpose of causing injury or harm to others. Anyone seen in possession of one
of these items will be asked to leave immediately, and will only be allowed to
return without the weapon. Community members are further expected to comply
with all state and local laws on this matter.  Aether events will be governed
by the strictest of the policies (Code of Conduct, intitutional rules,
local laws, state laws, federal laws) that apply to a given event.

## 6. Consequences of Unacceptable Behavior

Unacceptable behavior from any community member, including sponsors and those
with decision-making authority, will not be tolerated.

Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behavior is expected to comply immediately.

If a community member engages in unacceptable behavior, the community
organizers may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including a
temporary ban or permanent expulsion from the community without warning (and
without refund in the case of a paid event).

## 7. Enforecement Guidelines

Community leaders will follow these Community Impact Guidelines in determining
the consequences for any action they deem in violation of this Code of Conduct:

I. Correction

Community Impact: Use of inappropriate language or other behavior deemed
unprofessional or unwelcome in the community.

Consequence: A private, written warning from community leaders, providing
clarity around the nature of the violation and an explanation of why the
behavior was inappropriate. A public apology may be requested.

II. Warning

Community Impact: A violation through a single incident or series of actions.

Consequence: A warning with consequences for continued behavior. No interaction
with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction with those
enforcing the Code of Conduct, for a specified period of time. This includes
avoiding interactions in community spaces as well as external channels like
social media. Violating these terms may lead to a temporary or permanent ban.

III. Temporary Ban

Community Impact: A serious violation of community standards, including
sustained inappropriate behavior.

Consequence: A temporary ban from any sort of interaction or public
communication with the community for a specified period of time. No public or
private interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction
with those enforcing the Code of Conduct, is allowed during this period.
Violating these terms may lead to a permanent ban.

IV. Permanent Ban

Community Impact: Demonstrating a pattern of violation of community standards,
including sustained inappropriate behavior, harassment of an individual, or
aggression toward or disparagement of classes of individuals.

Consequence: A permanent ban from any sort of public interaction within the
community.


## 8. Reporting Guidelines

If you are subject to or witness unacceptable behavior, or have any other
concerns, please notify a community organizer as soon as possible. Currently,
this can be done by emailing the Aether Core Team at aether-core@umich.edu. In
the future, we intend to set up an anonymous method of reporting instances of
unacceptable behavior.

[Reporting Guidelines](REPORTING_GUIDELINES.md)

Additionally, community organizers are available to help community members
engage with local law enforcement or to otherwise help those experiencing
unacceptable behavior feel safe. In the context of in-person events, organizers
will also provide escorts as desired by the person experiencing distress.

## 9. Addressing Grievances

If you feel you have been falsely or unfairly accused of violating this Code of
Conduct, you should notify Aether Core Team with a concise description of your
grievance, as detailed in the [Reporting Guidelines](REPORTING_GUIDELINES.md).
Your grievance will be handled using the same guidelines as an incident, in
accordance with this document.

## 10. Scope

We expect all community participants (contributors, paid or otherwise;
sponsors; and other guests) to abide by this Code of Conduct in all community
venues--online and in-person--as well as in all one-on-one communications
pertaining to community business.

This code of conduct and its related procedures also applies to unacceptable
behavior occurring outside the scope of community activities when such behavior
has the potential to adversely affect the safety and well-being of community
members.

## 11. Contact info

aether-core@umich.edu

## 12. License and attribution

The Citizen Code of Conduct is distributed by
[Stumptown Syndicate](http://stumptownsyndicate.org) under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/). 

Portions of text derived from the
[Django Code of Conduct](https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/) and the
[Geek Feminism Anti-Harassment Policy](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy).

Portions of the text have been taken from the
[Contributor Covenant v2.0](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/0/code_of_conduct/)

The text has been further modified by the Aether Core Team.

_Revision 2.3. Posted 6 March 2017._

_Revision 2.2. Posted 4 February 2016._

_Revision 2.1. Posted 23 June 2014._

_Revision 2.0, adopted by the [Stumptown Syndicate](http://stumptownsyndicate.org) board on 10 January 2013. Posted 17 March 2013._
